---
title: What Reclaimtalks is about
author: Sherol Chen
---

It all started with a desire for unity. Sherol had unity on her heart
and made a point of visiting the other grad fellowships in the Bay Area.
Then we had an evening event at Stanford involving a jam session.
Meanwhile, we were each doing our own local things - including Veritas
Forums, multi-faith forums on campus, etc. There was a desire for
building connections with other like-minded people at other grad and
professional schools. We knew that Jesus said unity was important and
that it was how others would know who He is, but didn't see why this
particular multi-university grad unity was important. The next year, we
saw a multi-university grad retreat including UC Berkeley, UCSC, UCSF,
and Stanford, and a late-nite discussion about our vision. The following
year this retreat also included UCSD, and a more formal discussion and
time of sharing our individual callings and planning how we would
connect in the future.

<!-- break -->

So we had a group, and then we needed to discern what God was calling us
together \*for\*. At this past meeting it became clear that we needed to
create a space for people to share their professional testimonies - i.e.
what God is doing in their respective fields and individual work.

God working in and through our fields of research? That must be strange
talk. Christians build "good bridges", not "Christian bridges", right?
God might sometimes help us get a job or lead us right into a wall or
closed door, but surely He doesn't get involved in our day-to-day work
and business - or does He?

I have a friend who is part of Opus Dei, a group of Catholic brothers
and sisters. The website of Opus Dei says "Its mission is to spread the
message that work and the circumstances of everyday life are occasions
for growing closer to God, for serving others, and for improving
society".

When I went to college, I wanted to do good research and make a
difference for the kingdom. I had always thought of these as quite
separate things. God brought me to difficult straits in my research in
college - and that's when I realized my need for Him to really
"establish the work" of my hands.

Psalm 90:17 says this:

"May the favor of the Lord our God rest upon us; establish the work of
our hands for us-yes, establish the work of our hands."

Sir Francis Bacon, one of the fathers of the scientific method, said
this:

"If we labor in thy works with the sweat of our brows thou wilt make us
partakers of thy vision and thy Sabbath. Humbly we pray that this mind
may be steadfast in us, and that through these our hands, and the hands
of others to whom thou shalt give the same spirit, thou wilt vouchsafe
to endow the human family with new mercies."

I was also encouraged to talk with a couple who are both professors in
health sciences and who are both believers. They encouraged me, one
saying how she can see God working in the big picture of her science,
especially bringing them in contact with people and ideas - but that she
couldn't see this when she was in graduate school, since she was in the
trenches on a specific project.

Ok, so back to what Reclaimtalks is all about =).

It's about bringing together in unity Christian academics and
professionals who want to see Christ's kingdom come to this earth, and
equipping each other and encouraging each other in our callings, in
order that we might, with God's help, make an eternal difference in the
world as we continue Christ's mission as His body and His ambassadors.

More specifically, it is testifying to what God is doing in our
respective fields and in our own work and careers, and together seeking
Him - to know Him at a deeper level, recognize our dependency on Him and
trust Him more fully, and to see His greater purpose in our work and in
our lives accomplished in His time.

Even if our work may seem most abstract and esoteric, God can work
through it to connect us with people that otherwise might not know any
Christians. He may or may not give us the resource of prestige so that
we can steward our influence to advance His kingdom, though we remember
his Son often had little prestige during his days on this earth.

On the other hand, sometimes God can use our work and our position to do
something amazing and bring new mercies into our world, such as new
technologies that help people make a living and provide for their
families, new medicines and therapies to heal the sick and mentally ill,
new ways to effectively teach students, policies that promote justice
and world peace, to name a few.

Bottom line:\
 Ever wanted to change the world? Well, abiding in Christ, we sure can
try :).

Let's see what God does :)
