---
layout: post
title: A Heidi Baker Recap
author: Sherol Chen
---

[![](../../img_7876.jpg@w=452&h=339 "IMG_7876")](../../img_7876.jpg)

The main seating section on the first floor was filled with an
additional +30 in the balcony.

<!-- break -->

I'd estimate that there were about 500 people who attended the Heidi
Baker event at Stanford University. Prior to the event, 486 tickets were
reserved. People came from as north as UC Davis and flew in from as
south as UC San Diego. There were about 20 from UC Santa Cruz, 20 from
Berkeley, 20 from Davis, and 20 from UC San Francisco, with disciplines
of Medical, Dental, Computer Science, (a variety of) Engineering,
Anthropology, Business, Physics, Music, and Economics (to name a few).

At 5:00, there was a smaller meeting of about 25 (mostly) PhD students.
To come to this meeting, students had stated what it was they were doing
in their vocation: (<http://reclaimtalks.wordpress.com/people/>). After
listening to all of our passions, Heidi shared about the very practical
needs of her work. We have this recorded and will post as soon as it is
available.

At the 7:00 meeting, Heidi talked to the 500 person audience about the
spirit of adoption and told story after story about her experiences in
Mozambique (sharing similar stories she told at 5:00, but to a broader
audience). She asked again and again, "where are the doctors? where are
the engineers?"

Towards the end of the night, she called up students to state their
destinies, and for every other person who felt a similar destiny, they
were to come up on stage and pray with one another. By the end of the
night, half of the audience seemed to be on stage.

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-VK17GtDuQiM/T4zjn4tv0WI/AAAAAAAAcpE/S_SHvQ1cnNY/s640/IMG_7914.JPG)

Lives being changed...

Thanks to Chi Alpha for hosting us. Stay tuned for much more of this to
come!

- Sherol

Other feedback that I received via facebook and e-mail:

* * * * *

how'd everything go? i saw heidi at h rock right before she flew up to
stanford! i'm so excited to hear what God has done!

* * * * *

Thanks so so much for bringing Heidi Baker to come speak to us. The
event was EPIC. During the time of prayer God took away my fear and
anxiety about my career and increased my faith in that regard. The
Spirit came upon me quite significantly.

* * * * *

I saw you from the distance on Fri night but didn't get a chance to say
hi because I left at 9:30pm due to the cold I've been battling all week.
It was inspiring to hear Heidi Baker. Thank you for giving me her book
during the retreat. While I was in bed pretty much all day yesterday, I
picked it up and read almost a half of the book. I am humbled and
inspired.

* * * * *

She was fantastic! I hope you will have pod cast? I want to share her
fun and miraculous stories!

* * * * *

I was so touched by this and hearing Heidi! Thank you for hosting her!!

* * * * *

Heidi, once again, did not disappoint. I was so blessed by what she had
to say, praying for others, and being prayed for. I was unable to sleep
that night as Holy Spirit continued to work. Thank you for inviting her
to Stanford. I believe her visit has changed the atmosphere at Stanford.

* * * * *

Heidi Baker + Stanford + Colossians 1... Amazing :)

* * * * *

Good job, everyone!! Awesome night... Many lives impacted for eternity.
This was beyond awesome.

* * * * *

Amazing night! Got to meet Heidi Baker.

* * * * *

Thank you for putting together such a wonderful evening!!!

* * * * *

thanks for inviting me to the talk today. dr baker has definitely done
some pretty amazing stuff

* * * * *
