---
layout: post
title: Can Higher Education Change Africa?
author: Sherol Chen
---

[![](../../pemba1.jpg@w=551 "Iris Ministries' Pemba site")](../../pemba1.jpg)

Pemba, future home(?) of a University for orphans in Mozambique

<!-- break -->

Many people go to Africa for missions, and it is easy to see how many
professions can serve abroad. For example, business as mission is a
powerful strategy to help locals provide for their families and build
communities and learn about Jesus and His teachings in the process.
Medical missions can provide support in overwhelmed areas and training
for locals who can provide regular care to patients. Gifts of food are
helpful too, but get impacted and diminished by corrupt officials.
Farmers can educate locals about wise farming practices, and engineers
can provide infrastructure such as clean water and products for the
developing world that can help local economies and improve quality of
life. But how can PhD's in the ivory tower contribute their training to
missions?

Sometimes God works through circumstances to move people to different
places. The funding crunch in America and Europe has created substantial
frustration in the academic job market, enough to make people seriously
consider academic jobs in rising economies abroad. Some brave people
have even gone to be professors in less-developed places - not because
they'll have access to unique samples for their research - but because
they want to make a lasting impact in these other places, and are
willing to sacrifice the prestige and resources they might have in
America.

However, such a calling is not for everyone. Nonetheless, there are
opportunities for academics in America and Europe to form partnerships
with universities in other countries. Such partnerships can provide
great opportunities for collaboration and/or cultural exchange, and
conduits for people-to-people exchanges.

What is a people-to-people exchange?

People-to-people exchanges are perhaps the most cost-effective measure
used by our government to promote positive relations and mutual
understanding with other countries. The Peace Corps is perhaps the most
famous, but there are other programs for professions such as science and
engineering.

The State department is a big fan of such endeavors. Recently, regarding
relationships between Burma and the U.S., the following statement was
made: <http://www.state.gov/r/pa/prs/ps/2012/05/190226.htm>

> As the two governments strengthen their bilateral relationship, the
> United States seeks to build on its engagement with the people of
> Burma through increased people-to-people exchanges. More than 1,400
> Burmese civil society members, young leaders, students, and
> journalists are alumni of U.S. government exchange programs.

Ok, so bringing people to the US helps other countries substantially.
But these people-to-people exchanges work best when done both ways.
People gain a greater understanding about other countries and how we can
best help each other through actually going there and experiencing the
culture. Also, these exchanges help build mutual trust and
understanding, and importantly open doors for more people to travel
through.

Partnerships with universities in other countries provide people in the
US with something very important - channels for disseminating knowledge
so it can have impact. Not only knowledge about scientific fields, but
practical knowledge about how to educate the next generation of doctors,
scientists, engineers, businessmen, etc. With the internet, barriers to
finding knowledge online (if you know what to look for) are amazingly
lower than in the past. However, the internet is no substitute for
relationships and trust.

Many countries with rising economies and prominence have prominent
American and European professors on their faculty as visiting
professors. Visiting professors can provide unparalleled opportunities
for growth and collaboration by bringing in new ideas and techniques to
local universities. They can also bring home passion for important
problems in developing countries, and provide opportunities for
foreigners to come to the U.S. for part of their education.

The National Science Foundation \*highly\* regards scientific outreach
to college and K-12 and the general public. Can such "scientific
outreach" make a lasting impact in the poorest countries?

Iris Ministries is a missionary organization started by Rolland and
Heidi Baker in 1980 that has started many orphanages and churches in
Mozambique. Instead of reaching out to the educated people, they started
reaching out to street children. Now they are interested in starting a
University. Orphans that they picked up off the street have now come of
age and are ready to change the world - and the thing they need most in
order to do this is education.

A University for poor orphans? Yes!

For a long time, I have felt that education is needed more in Africa
than a new drug cocktail to keep HIV at bay that people can't afford.
Soon after India emphasized education, they found themselves with a new
middle class that then created a demand for better healthcare.

So, what does an organization known for orphanages need to start a
university? Ten PhD's to serve as faculty, in order to become
accredited. I hear they have five already on board. But what more do
they need? Partners at the top universities in the world who can help
with curriculum development and/or serve as consultants, visiting
professors, etc. To make this new university more able to equip the poor
to change the world, they will need to not be intellectually isolated,
but develop connections with academicians in the U.S., Europe, and Asia.

Here at ReClaim we are forming an initial team to go to Mozambique and
see how we might help and lead others to help in any way we can to get
this "university for the poor" off the ground. Part of this will involve
sharing our passions for our respective fields, and some ways of
learning in these fields, and even resources for learning. Science and
the social sciences are best learned by doing, so hopefully we can dream
about what research might look like at such an institution. From our
time there, we can then get the word out to attract additional
international funding partners, and to attract other grad students to go
serve there as adjunct instructors, guest lecturers, etc. If we can
learn how to educate the poorest of the poor, maybe we'll be better
equipped to educate the poor in America.

What might learning at such a university look like? Well, with
ultra-low-cost computers and electronics hardware such as One Laptop Per
Child ([http://one.laptop.org/](http://one.laptop.org)), Raspberry Pi
(<http://www.raspberrypi.org/> ) , and Arduino (
<http://www.arduino.cc/> ), it has never before been easier to teach
about technology in the developing world.

What might come of this endeavor if it is successful?

Imagine graduates creating low-cost, high-tech solutions to problems in
the developing world, and bolstering local economies with new
inventions. Imagine future doctors trained to make the best of the
resources they have to fight disease, treat patients, educate health
care practioners, and raise public health awareness to combat infectious
diseases and tropical diseases.

Besides being an adventure, we would get to be part of something bigger
than publishing papers and padding our CV's in the rat race to survive
in the ivory tower.

But most of all, I think we who go would learn a whole lot about life in
Mozambique and what God is doing there and how we can imitate the faith
of the Mozambicans.
