---
layout: post
title: Living our Dream
author: Janet Payne / Peter Payne
---

Like you, we had many discussions about how we would serve the Kingdom. 
I had an MA in Education, Peter a BA from Stanford in Philosophy.  We
decided that since we both spoke Spanish (from previous summer missions)
that we would look into grad school in Latin America somewhere.  Peter
was on staff with InterVarsity, so we found ourselves at a staff
breakfast table at Urbana '76 with Americans serving IFES in Mexico
City. Across the table was the Regional Secretary for Latin America and
IFES staff from Argentina. As we talked with the Americans, the others
said, "Why stop with Mexico?" and before breakfast was over, we had a
plan for a trip to Peru with stops in between to check out the
possibilities.

<!-- break -->

We ended up in Mexico City, going down with a 6-month old son.  Peter
studied for an MA in Philosophy.  It was a good time, but it was not
easy living in the city.  More significantly, we felt at the end of the
time that it would be better for Peter to be with those who were
secular, even hardened atheists, and he found he preferred analytical
philosophy and thought.  That turned our thoughts and hearts to Europe.

We moved to Southern CA for a PhD program at Claremont Grad School, now
with two boys, aged 2 and 4.  The PhD took a long time with teaching in
between.  But when it was almost finished (we thought), Peter took
another look at his goal of being a professor.  Instead, he decided to
join InterVarsity Grad/Faculty Ministry staff so he could influence
future generations of professors and professionals who would know how to
integrate their faith with their profession, their heart with their
mind.  That took us to the University of Michigan for 16 wonderful
years.  It was really a time of harvest, a great place to be.  Peter
kept up with philosophy and apologetics and gave talks in other schools
while serving grad students and faculty at UM.

But we never went to Europe.  Until one day, when the boys were in
college and my mom, who had moved to be near us, had passed away, we
started to wonder if it was not finally time for us to begin a ministry
in Europe. Peter wanted to continue traveling and speaking in the US,
and was given permission to do so, but we contacted a friend who was
then the IFES Regional Secretary for the Balkans.  He suggested we start
with an IFES all-Europe student conference - one that happens only every
three or four years. We were invited to attend, Peter was asked to give
a seminar, we each led small groups, etc.  That was the year 2000 and
the first of monthly trips to Europe almost every year since.  We follow
invitations from student groups or general secretaries for outreach
lectures, tough-question or Q/A evenings, workshops, or training for
Christians, and occasionally lecturing in philosophy faculties.  I will
let Peter finish this.     Janet

We are currently in Slovakia.  Over the next three days we will be
giving lectures at universities in three cities.  The topics: "Why Does
God Allow Suffering?," "Science vs. Faith?," and "The Qur'an and the
Bible."  Easter week this year is another of the conferences mentioned
above, this one in Gy"or, Hungary (over 2,000 students).  I will be
leading a seminar on "Who is God?" and Janet and I together with the
IFES Gen Sec will be leading a 4-hr track on "Explaining the Gospel in
Culturally Relevant Ways."  It is a wonderful privilege to have such
opportunities for service in God's kingdom.     Peter
