---
title: What is next for Passion Talks
author: Kassa Betre
---

It has been more than 10 days since the 2nd Passion Talks happened,
perhaps enough time for the excitement of the day to have faded
considerably, and therefore, perhaps a good time for us to remember what
we set out to do.

<!-- break -->

It is my sincere hope and prayer that Passion Talks was not just a day
long event. The reason why we had to have Passion Talks in the first
place was to challenge the extremely secular academic culture that
doesn't give us space to talk about our faith in the same room where we
discuss our research. So long us the secular academic culture remains,
there will always be the need to have Passion Talks. However, it being
impractical to have Passion Talks every other week, we have to take the
spirit of Passion Talks to our daily working environment. The challenge
I'm posing to us all is the following:

**Would you consider making your next conference presentation at
whatever professional meeting more in the spirit of a Passion Talks?**

To clarify, I am not proposing that you get up on a stage and proclaim
how you are Christian and Proud (even though that is my prayer for all
of us), but rather, that you incorporate somet personal and spiritually
significant element of your work into the presentation itself somehow;
in an un-confrontational way, and see how God responds.

If you do that or have done that in the past and have gotten interesting
responses or reactions, affirmation from God, or positive or negative
reactions from people, would you consider sharing the experience with
the rest of us by writing a blog on
[http://passiontalks.org](http://passiontalks.org/) \* so that we will
all be encouraged by your courage?

I am fully aware of the tendency by some event organizers to exaggerate
the importance or significance of the even they helped organize, and I
may be suffering from a bit of that. But, if you connect with even a
little bit of what has happened at Passion Talks, why don't we pray
together that God would move powerfully, and do much more than a day
long event?

\* Currently the website doesn't have the capacity for everyone to post
a blog, so please contact Sherol to post.
