---
title: Why Passion Talks?
author: Kassa Betre
---

You might be wondering, "What is 'Passion Talks' anyway? And why should
I devote an entire day of my busy life to attend?"

If that is you I ask a couple minutes of your time and attention to hear
me about why I think Passion Talks is important and why you should
consider getting involved.

<!-- break -->

Simply put, Passion Talks is a venue where we give "professional
testimonies." It is a hybrid between professional conferences, and
testimonials. The need for Passion Talks arises from the big chasm we,
people in academia and for that matter any field of research, face as
believers in a personal God. Almost everything about our work, the way
we conduct research, the way we talk about it, the way we communicate,
is purged of all forms of subjective and personal thoughts, regardless
whether they are true or not. This has its benefits, it keeps science
universal. However, if we believe a personal God is the author of
creation which we are trying to understand, how can we hope to know him
better through our work if we insist on confining all our thoughts about
our work to the truly impersonal and objective?

The truth is, no science is purely objective, and it is imperative that
we who hope to live genuine lives of worship to God  find ways to speak
about the personal and subjective aspects of our work in hopes that we
reflect better the beautiful qualities of our personal God, who
nonetheless created the seemingly objective and impersonal universe and
the laws governing it.

Though this sounds huge, in practice what it means is that we strive to
find ways of discussing our research in a holistic manner. We will
discuss not just the objective work, but go down to the personal aspects
of what motivates us, what fuels us, what encourages us when times are
hard, and what keeps us going when, by the world's standards, we seem to
be utter failures.

For those of you familiar with the history of science, and for that
matter the university in general, it started out from very sound
Christian world view about who God is and how the universe he created
should therefore behave in orderly, intelligible ways. Many prominent
scientists in the early days saw their work as a form of worship to God.
The famous astronomer, Johannes Kepler (of Kepler's law) is quoted to
have said, "For a long time, I wanted to become a theologian. Now,
however, behold, how through my efforts God is being glorified through
astronomy."

I may not fully understand, the way Kepler did, how God is being
glorified through my research. But I can assure you that he will be
glorified on August 17th at Passion Talks. Imagine you got the sense,
after listening to the first Passion Talk, "Wow, I can see how God
really is sustaining that guy." And after the second one, "I can see how
her work is bringing her close to God," after the third, "Wow, God
really did humble him through his research, but he is all the better for
it now." Imagine that went on for the majority of the day, and imagine
that not only you, but most of the people in attendance felt that way
most of the day. What more can we do to glorify God in a day than this?
We are helping people see that God is alive and at work as displayed in
each of the talks! Have no doubt, he will be smiling down on us. And for
those of us who at least WANT to love him (whether or not we actually
love him) what makes him happy will make us happy, and his glory is our
glory.

So why Passion Talks? Passion Talks is a novel way where we can bring
glory to God through our testimonies about our work. After all, we give
talks about our work to advance our careers! Why can't we do it to
please God?
